Iris Lamp:--> It's a smart table lamp. it works as a usual desk light as well as automatically detects the user to turn on/off light and in midnight automatically lightens up ur path when u want to go somewhere.

Obstacle sensor: IR Infrared Obstacle Avoidance Sensor Module has a pair of infrared transmitting and receiving tubes. When the transmitted light waves are reflected back, the reflected IR waves will be received by the receiver tube. The onboard comparator circuitry does the processing and the green indicator LED comes to life.

Relay: relay is an electrically operated device.it has an input circuit and an output circuit.It is frequently used in automatic control circuit. To put it simply, it is an automatic switch to controlling a high-current circuit with a low-current signal.

Dino Jump Run Cactus:--> It is the game appears on Google chrome screen when you don't have good internet connection. There are two push buttons one for jumping and another one to start and stop the game.

Makepython ESP32:--> MakePython ESP32 is a powerfu tool for MicroPython learners & developers. it is easy to learn and use users can begin the python programming with directly connecting this board to PC. with 1.3 inch color LCD to display.MicroPython is a lean implementation of the Python 3 programming language that has been pared down to run efficiently on microcontrollers.

uPyCraft: An IDE specially designed for micro python, working with a series of operation systems, e.g. Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10, MAC OSX 10.11. It supports ESP32 chip.

simple gesture control with movemetn of arm for RC toys:--> we can simply contro a rc stunt car with movement of your arm.

tilt sensors:These sensors are used to measure slope and tilt within a limited range of motion Such types of sensors produce an electrical signal which is proportional to the degree of inclination with respect to one or more axes. These sensors play a very important role in several applications such as off road vehicles, portable computers, robotics devices, aviation instruments, etc. Lipo battery Transmitter

Hand Washing Timer:--> this will alert you by a buzzer that countds 20 seconds of your hand washing.

The HC-SR04 ultrasonic sensor:It offers excellent range detection with high accuracy and stable readings in an easy-to-use from 2cm to 400 cm.To start the distance measurement the TRIGGER pin of HC-SR04 must receive a pulse of high (5V) for at least 10us, this will initiate the sensor will transmit out 8 cycle of ultrasonic burst at 40kHz and wait for the reflected ultrasonic burst. When the sensor detected ultrasonic from receiver, it will set the Echo pin to high (5V) and delay for a period (width) which proportion to distance. Time = Width of Echo pulse, in uS (micro second) Distance in centimeters = Time / 58

Using LoRa to get remote temperature and humidity data from arduino:-->

LoRa: its a wireless communication module. its small in size, efficient, has a long communication range and mainly used for mutual communication between IoT terminals.

Maduino LoRa radio: it is a mainboard based on the ATmega328 and RFM95W 868MHz module. The LoRa Radio allows the user to send data and reach extremely long ranges at low data-rates. It provides ultra-long range spread spectrum communication and high interference immunity whilst minimizing current consumption.

ATmega328: its a single chip microcontroller. it is commonly used in many projects and autonomous systems where a simple, low-powered, low-cost micro-controller is needed[citation needed]. Perhaps the most common implementation of this chip is on the popular Arduino development platform, namely the Arduino Uno and Arduino.
have
DHT11: The DHT11 is a basic, ultra low-cost digital temperature and humidity sensor. It uses a capacitive humidity sensor and a thermistor to measure the surrounding air, and spits out a digital signal on the data pin (no analog input pins needed). Its fairly simple to use, but requires careful timing to grab data.

ThingSpeak: its an IoT analytics platform service that allows you to aggregate, visulaize and analyze the live data streams in cloud.

Electronic longboard:--> this electronic longboard canreach speeds of about 40km/hr and run for about 18km.

BLDC motors: its an electronically commuted DC motor which does not have brushes. The controller provides pulses of current to the motor windings which control the speed and torque of the motor.it has high speed, elctronic control and low maintenance. BLDC motors have long been used in industrial applications such as actuators, feed drives for CNC machines, industrial robots, extruder drives, among others.

ESC: Electronic Speed Controller controls the brushless motor movement or speed by activating the appropriate MOSFETs to create the rotating magnetic field so that the motor rotates. The higher the frequency, higher the speed of motor will be. The ESC gets the commands from the receiver that tells it how much the remote's throttle is pushed. It then controls the amount of energy that passes from the battery to the motor, hence controlling the motor's speed.

PiPiano: its a piano based on Raspberry Pi which uses fluidSynth Soundfont. one can push all the notes at once and the note will play longer with the button held down.

Raspberry Pi:Raspberry Pi is a low cost, credit-card sized computer that plugs into a computer monitor or TV, and uses a standard keyboard and mouse. It’s capable of doing everything you’d expect a desktop computer to do, from browsing the internet and playing high-definition video, to making spreadsheets, word-processing, and playing games. it has the ability to interact with the outside world, and has been used in a wide array of digital maker projects, from music machines and parent detectors to weather stations and tweeting birdhouses with infra-red cameras

FluidSynth:it is a free open source software synthesizer which converts Musical Instrument Digital Interface note data into an audio signal using SoundFont technology without need for a SoundFont-compatible soundcard

SoundFont: it refers to a file format and associated technology that uses sample-based synthesis to play MIDI files.

MIDI: Musical InsPi cameratrument Digital Interface is a technical standard that describes a communications protocol, digital interface, and electrical connectors that connect a wide variety of electronic musical instruments, computers, and related audio devices for playing, editing and recording music.

Raspberry Pi security camera:--> its a motion activated security camera using Raspberry Pi in which you can record time and take a picture that will be saved locally. We can contrl it remotely by accessing the webpage using ip address.

Pi camera:The Pi camera module is a portable light weight camera that supports Raspberry Pi. It communicates with Pi using the MIPI camera serial interface protocol. It is normally used in image processing, machine learning or in surveillance projects. It is commonly used in surveillance.

PIR motion sensor:passive infrared sensor (PIR sensor) is an electronic sensor that measures infrared (IR) light radiating from objects in its field of view. They are most often used in PIR-based motion detectors. PIR sensors are commonly used in security alarms and automatic lighting applications.The detector itself does not emit any energy but passively receives it, detects infrared radiation from the environment.

Raspberry Pi cooling Fan:--> its a quite simple project in which we can put the fan over heat sink using zipties and plug the fan on GPIO using 5V and GND and when Pi is powered, fan will start working.

GPIO(General Purpose Input Output):Singal digital pin on an integrated circuit board

Heatsink:heatsink is a passive heat exchanger that transfers heat. The heatsink is typically a metallic part which can be attached to a device releasing energy in the form of heat, with the aim of dissipating that heat to a surrounding fluid in order to prevent the device overheating.

Water Level Indicator:--> its a simple project based on Arduino board which will show water level on display and remind us by a buzzer when water tank is empty or full.

JNS-SR04 water proof ultrasonic module: its quite similar to HC-SR04 sensor bur it has waterproof probe. it emits wave and recieves when reflected back after hitting an obstacle and we can calculate time using the width of echopulse. we already know the speed of sound so we can calculate the distance and convert it into the water percent present in the tank.

Soil Moisture Display:--> This project is way to the test the moisture content of display it without conneceting arduino to computer. for this purpose we can install a _single digit seven segment display _ on arduino board itself.

Soil Moisture Sensor with Control Unit:It consists of two parts: The main Sensor and the Control Board. Sensor part of the Soil Moisture Sensor consists of a couple of conductive probes that can be used to measure the volumetric content of water in soil. control board is made up of LM393 IC, which is a voltage comparator. The board also consists of all the necessary components like connectors, LEDs, resistors etc. to measure the Soil Moisture.

LM393 IC:The LM393 is a dual differential comparator. that means that it accepts 2 inputs for comparison.It compares these voltage inputs and determines which is the larger value. Based on this, electronic decisions can be made based on which input is greater and which is smaller.

Non Contact IR Thermometer:--> its a project to measure the temperature of a body that is not safe to touch so this device measure temperature of body using IR thermal sensor and report the result on your OLED screen. it can be used to measure component temperatures, measuring body temperature, surface temperature, Heat ventilation and much more. But there is a limitation that we have to keep this device close to the part of which temp we want to know because the limitation of sensor.

OLED screen:(Organic Light Emitting Device, Organic Light Emitting Diode) A display technology that offers bright, colorful images with a wide viewing angle, low power, high contrast ratio and fast response time for sports and action movies.

Laser Diode:its a similar semiconductor device to LED but can directly convert electrical energy into light and emits more converged light in comparison to LED. laser diodes give high efficiency with low thresold current. We are using this here to know that where the sensing area of sensor is pointing at.

MLX90614 IR thermal sensor: The MLX90614 is a Contactless Infrared (IR) Digital Temperature Sensor that can be used to measure the temperature of a particular object ranging from -70° C to 382.2°C. The sensor uses IR rays to measure the temperature of the object without any physical contact and communicates to the microcontroller using the I2C protocol. it can be used in industries to measure the temperature of moving objects like a rotating motor shaft. Due to its high accuracy and precision, it is also used in a wide range of commercial, health care, and household applications like room temperature monitoring, body temperature measurement, etc.

I2C protocol:I2C is a serial protocol for two-wire interface to connect low-speed devices like microcontrollers, EEPROMs, A/D and D/A converters, I/O interfaces and other similar peripherals in embedded systems.

Raspberry Pi Weather Station:--> it monitors temperature, pressure and humidity over internet.Firstly DHT11 sensor senses the Humidity & Temperature Data and BM180 sensor measures the atmospheric pressure. Secondly Raspberry Pi reads the DHT11 sensor module’s output by using single wire protocol and BM180 pressure sensor’s output by using I2C protocol and extracts both sensors values into a suitable number in percentage (humidity), Celsius scale (temperature), hectoPascal or millibar (pressure). Thirdly, these values are sent to ThingSpeak server by using inbuilt Wi-Fi of Raspberry Pi 3. And finally ThingSpeak analyses the data and shows it in a Graph form. A LCD is also used to display these values locally.

BM180 sensor: its a low-cost sensing solution for measuring barometric pressure. The sensor is soldered onto a PCB with a 3.3V regulator, I2C level shifter and pull-up resistors on the I2C pins.

difference in I2C and 1-wire protocol: I2C protocol: Shorter distance,Much faster, Multi-master. I2C devices will have 4 wires (GND & power plus SCK clock & SDA data). 1-wire protocol: Longer distance, Slower, Strictly master-slave. it can get by with only 2 (data and GND) if the devices are powered in parasitic mode, meaning they draw power from the data line; alternatively they need GND, power & data.


